---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2006-07-26T00:00:00'
id: 20eLpE5W84Bh
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: Found a lab
slug: 20eLpE5W84Bh--found-a-lab
---

I think I found the photolab that I'm going to use. I've been
looking for a lab that offers an API to their services. (API, for
those that are wondering, means Application Programming Interface,
and is a fancy term that just means that you can write a program
that talks to the software that has the the API.) A few places out
there have some basic APIs, but most of them just let you upload
prints and still require you to go to their web page manually to
complete the orders. The one exception to this that I've found is
[White House Custom Colour](http://www.whcc.com/). They don't have
a full API, but they have a service where you upload images via FTP
to different size folders. For each file you upload to a specific
folder, you get one print of it in the respective size. Since I can
write programs to automatically FTP this means that I can hack
together my own poor man's API. What all this means, is that I
should be able to setup my photo order web pages on my site and
have them automatically fulfilled. It would be much easier to go
with one of the many online photo labs out there and just use their
built in shopping carts, but I have looked at a ton of them and
don't like any. So, the web geek in me looks like it's gonna have a
chance to run a little project. I think the first lab that's out
there that creates a full blown API is going to get a huge bump in
business. There is some open-source web gallery software called
"Gallery" that has a few simple shopping cart features in it with
shutterfly and one or two other labs. None of the available
services is fully customizeable though which means that what you
can do with it is limited. The first online lab that provides an
open API will probably get immediate visibility into the 50,000
Gallery installs the next time they update.
