---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2006-06-22T00:00:00'
id: 20eLnmSpcLKJ
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: From a comment on the Media
slug: 20eLnmSpcLKJ--from-a-comment-on-the-media
---

(This is the second part of a comment where I was responding to
another post, but it got long enough that I decided to move it to
its own post.) Truth be told though, I do try to avoid a lot of the
coverage. I'm turned off by it, but not necessarily in the right
way. It's the relentlessness of it that I think is getting to me.
But, at the same time, I feel like it's lacking power. Instead of
being engaging, most of it comes across to me as a kind of white
noise. I really don't know what I'm trying to get at. There are a
lot of aspects of this situation that I can't seem to get my mind
around. The whole thing really is F.U.B.A.R. And when things are
Fucked Up Beyond All Recognition like they are now drawing any
single conclusion becomes and exercise in frustration. One of the
few clear thoughts that I have is that we should not have gone into
Iraq the way we did. It's absolutely not a black and white issue,
but the way in which we got ourselves into Iraq has few
possibilities of redeeming values. But that is past and now we are
where we are and I can't really see any good outcomes among the
potential near term futures. And from what I'm hearing in the media
it sounds like our political and military leaders have the same
problem. And, as is want to happen in our United States, instead of
grouping together to try to figure shit out, we hurl political
grenades at each other with the goal keeping/gaining power for
whichever political party we affiliate ourselves with. It pisses me
off that We, collectively, seem incapable of saying that something
that The Opposing Party said is a good idea that every issues
effectively becomes a choice from a binary selection. Option 1: You
are with us. Option 2: You are against us. Fuck you if you want to
talk and exchange ideas. Pick "1" or "2" or stay the hell out of
the game. Incidentally, I'm a registered Independent, and I think
more people (if not most) should be. From what I see, after people
register for one of the two main parties they slide into a black
and white way of thinking where any big issue, no matter how
complex only has one answer. (Yes, that's a gross
overgeneralization, but I'm ranting, so give me a little slack.)
Anyway, I'll close with a quote: "The test of a first-rate
intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in mind at
the same time and still retain the ability to function." \~ F.
Scott Fitzgerald
