---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2005-09-27T00:00:00'
id: 20eLH95qHZRC
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: Safer Internet Purchases
slug: 20eLH95qHZRC--safer-internet-purchases
---

One of the fears of making a purchase over the internet is giving
out your credit card information. After all, you have to send them
all the info needed to make one charge which means they could
theoretically make any number. A bigger problem is likely to be
that the do something irresponsible with it and it winds up getting
into the dreaded "wrong hands". CitiBank has a nice service that
can help keep your credit card information secure called "Virtual
Account Numbers". The way that it works is well though out. When
you are shopping online and are ready to check-out you use a
CitiBank tool to create a new Virtual Account Number. The process
is simple, you log in (either to their web site or a small
application which you can download to your computer) with your
CitiBank username and password, and generate a new number. A three
digit security code that some sites require and the expiration date
for the number are provided as well. When filling out the billing
information for your purchase you just substitute these "virtual"
numbers for your regular ones. The purchase will still show up on
your regular credit card statement, but if the company you made the
purchase from loses your data you don't have to get an entirely new
card since they won't have your real number. The expiration date of
the virtual number is also set to whatever the next calendar month
is from the time you create it. This helps to further limit
exposure to insecurity. There are even some advanced features that
allow you to set a limit on the virtual number and extend the
expiration date up to one your. This is extremely useful for
setting up subscriptions to things like web site hosting and music
services that are billed monthly. If it's $6/month, you can set the
expiration date for one year out and then set the limit on the
virtual number to $75 (I bump in a few extra dollars just in case.)
You need to create a new virtual number at the end of the year so
your subscription doesn't get canceled, but that's easy. The only
real downside that I've noticed is for some "Will-call" purchases.
If you buy something like a ticket online but are going to pick it
up later, some companies require you to have the credit card that
made the purchase with you (one example is Fandango). Obviously,
this isn't possible with a virtual number since there isn't a card.
With luck, major vendors will put a solution in place for this.
Till then, you'll have to decide if you want to put your real card
number out there. I know CitiBank has this because I use it. You
can check out their page on it
[here](http://www.citibank.com/us/cards/tour/cb/shp_van.htm). Other
card providers probably have similar things. -- Tags: tagFinance
tagSecurity tagInternet
