---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2007-04-04T00:00:00'
id: 20eM0hskL87k
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: Monitor help
---

I'm looking to get a new monitor for my home system. I want a good
LCD one that I can use for photo stuff as well as general computer
hacking. There are a ton of options out there and it took some
digging, but I finally found a link that has some good info about
what the hell all the numbers and specs mean. It's on
[anandtech](http://forums.anandtech.com/messageview.aspx?catid=31&threadid=1745344&enterthread=y)
which is a site I hadn't actully been to in a long time. When I
paid more attention to what was going on in the hardware world it
was one of my main sources of info and I have a fair amount of
trust in the conversations that go on there. If you scroll way down
on that link there is a section for "PROSUMER PHOTO EDITING". I'm
avoiding the first two recommendations and planning on going with
the third. The 20.1": HP LP2065. I like all the specs on the first
one (20.1"w: NEC MultiSync 20WMGX2) except for the "OptiClear
contrast coating". I've seen monitors with that before and the
glare it creates really irritates me. And the second recommendation
of the Samsung (SyncMaster 215TW) has a note about input lag. I
don't do much gaming, but any noticible input lag also bugs me. I
might not notice it, but it's not worth the risk. I'd kinda prefer
a widescreen, but I'm going to be setting up my old 17 lcd in a
dual monitor setup so that shouldn't really be an issue.
