---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2008-01-10T00:00:00'
id: 20eMD97KVQOc
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: Filtered Opinion
slug: 20eMD97KVQOc--filtered-opinion
---

I haven't been posting in this blog very much over the past few
months. Largely, that's because i have been so slammed with/at work
and have been doing so much traveling as a result that by the time
I have a chance to make an entry, I'm so beat I'd rather not get
back on the computer. Another reason, though, which comes in as a
very close second, is my awareness of the hyper-public aspect of
the web. With two huge projects going on (along with a several
minor ones) and a lot of time passing there has been several things
that I thought about posting. If I personally knew everyone that
would have seen the entries, I probably would have posted at least
a few despite the ongoing exhaustion. In fact, based on the number
of folks I think are actually reading this blog (and I don't track
it so I'm just guessing that it's in the tens of people), I could
have posted away without any concern. The problem, of course, is
that with a public blog there is know way to know who actually IS
reading it. Let alone, who WILL read it. I work in a corporate
environment. Over the past few months, there have been a few things
that I REALLY wanted to post some thoughts about. Nothing
intrinsically good or bad. Just comments on the way that some
things in the corporate world work and how they're different than I
would operate given my druthers. I'd have no problem with anyone I
know and/or anyone who is remotely involved in my projects reading
what I would have posted. The trick, of course, is everyone else.
Don't get me wrong. I highly doubt that anyone who will ever read
this would comment outside this forum or use it in a way that
brings fallout to me or my employer. No matter how small though,
the chance exist. Shoult a friend of mine mention this blog to a
friend of theirs who happens to work for a press outlet and then
they mention it to their editor in passing who happens to check it
out and notice that I complain about some random everyday fact of
corporate life (not that I would complain, I live in corporate
utopia) and next thing I know there is a below the fold, but still
front page, article pulling quotes from the blog taking out of
context that causes a poop-storm. Of course, they could also
comment on my run-on sentences, but I'm a tech guy, so that
probably won't get them much play. Regardless. Suddenly, I'm not
regular ol' Alan. I'm "a TOUR employee". As "me", no one other than
people that know me give two shakes about what I say. The potential
though, is that someone decides to identify me based on my employer
and uses the fact that I complain about my laptop to create a
brouhaha about the TOUR being unsatisfied with a corporate
technology provider. (I'm going to pause here to mention that
that's completely hypothetical and that I actually had to take some
RAM out of my machine because it was so bad-ass I was afraid it was
going to become self-aware.) Even more wild is that this could
happen from a post that I made months ago. All this is a little
sad, but only a little. It's just a fact of internet life that I'm
probably more aware, and therefore more wary of, than most. The
good news for me though, is that even with this potential negative
aspect, this new medium exists now and has provided another outlet
for the thoughts that I feel comfortable posting and has provided
me with a ton of insight from the postings of others. Even as
cautions as I am of the medium and my participation in it, you'll
not here me say that the overall ability to distribute personal
thoughts/perspectives/opinions is anything less than amazing.
