---
blurb: ''
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: '2007-10-03T00:00:00'
id: 20eM7U8CWUHF
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
type: post
title: New Credit Card
---

My main credit card expires at the end of the month and I just got
the new one in the mail today. It expires 10/10.... As in 2010. I
mean, I know that year is close, but the fact that I've got
something now that is specifically tied to that year (and way late
in that year) is a little wild. While I don't expect us to have
shuttles to the moon base and insanely smart (and just plane old
insane) [AIs](http://www.reellifewisdom.com/files/images/hal2.jpg)
by then, we do have some pretty cool shit. Like HDTV which makes
football games even more awesome to watch when you aren't at the
stadium. Another interesting number on the card is the "Member
since". For me, that number is 1994. I graduated high school in
1993 and start college in the fall of the same year. I can't
remember exactly, but I think that I actually signed up for the
card late in my first semester, but didn't get it till January of
1994. I've mentioned before that like a lot of people, I had no
idea how to properly handle a credit card at that point. I quickly
maxed it out and was just paying the minimum each month until they
would bump my credit line up a bit in a few months. Rinse, repeat.
1994 means that I've had a credit card for well over 1/3 of my
life. Luckily, I figured out quicker than most how important it is
from both a financial and basic mental health perspective to get to
the point that I wasn't carrying a balance from month to month. I
don't remember exactly when, but it has probably been eight or nine
years since I had a monthly balance that I couldn't pay off. I've
had a good job for several years now, but I think that it's
important to point out that I actually got to where I was paying
off the balance each month while I was still in college. It's a
critical point that the reason I was able to get out of credit card
debt was not because I got a good job, but because I figured out at
some level how I was wasting a ton of money by paying interest to
the credit card company and cut down my spending to the point where
I could chip away at the debt until it was paid off. Before this
clicked in my brain, I went thru two other credit card paradigms.
The first was after I first got my card and it was just a neat way
to get stuff (mainly photo stuff) without it seeming like it was
costing me extra. It felt like, I could simply get something that I
wanted and then pay it off over time. While this is, of course,
true at the top level, the fact that I was paying interest for this
priviledge and exactly how much that interest was costing me were
way below the surface of my thinking. The second major thought
pattern happened when I started to realize how much I was paying in
interest. From that point, I start to rationalize that the reason I
was in debt was because I was a poor college student and that when
I got out and got a Real Job, I would pay it off. While I might
have been able to pull this off, it would have been harder to do if
I had kept piling debt on. And frankly, I know several folks with
really good paying jobs that still struggle to pay their bills each
month. That is much more the rule than the exception. I got lucky
and got out early, but if you haven't had a chance to pull that off
yet, I would really encourage you to take a step back and run a few
numbers to see how much more you are paying for things if you tack
on the interest of a credit card on the purchase. For me, it was a
tough process at first. It's not unlike trying to focus your
thoughts on an aspect of your personality/relationships/body/life
that you don't like. It's not fun, but if you can give it a good go
and make a change based on it for the better, the reward from both
a personal satisfaction as well as a financial perspective are
great.
