---
category: Miscellaneous
date: '2006-10-09T00:00:00'
id: 20WSfezlie3B
slug: /rss-bandit
title: RSS Bandit
type: post
---

I had a hard drive go out on me a little while back and am in the
process of re-installing all the software on my machine to rebuild
it. While it's a huge pain in the ass, I actually like being albe
to completely start over a little. I just prefer to do this on my
own time line instead of when the computer decides I should. I had
been using Sharp Reader for my RSS reader, but am giving
[RSS Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/) a spin. It's an open source
project that's hosted on [Source Forge](http://sourceforge.net/).
You probably know I'm a big fan of Open Source software but that's
less important to me than ensuring that the software I use is the
best at the particular task I'm asking it to complete. I haven't
been with RSS Bandit long, but there is one qucik thing that I like
about it over Sharp Reader. In Sharp Reader, whenever a new article
is picked up an annoying little message window pops up over the
windows taks bar. There is no way to turn this off. Sometimes I
like this, but there are times when I want the it off. For example,
when giving a presentation from my laptop, I prefer not to have a
message pop up saying a new story with the title "Increasing number
of female college students forced to resort to prostitution to pay
for college" has come up on [fark.com](http://fark.com/). RSS
Bandit lets you drop different feeds into categories that show up
as folders. One knock against it is that each time you open the
application, the folders are collapsed and you have to open them
individually to see the specific feeds inside each. This is not
good. It should remember the state of each folder and launch that
way next time. My solution for this right now is simply to keep
everything at the "root" level of the RSS feeds outside of any
folders. Less organized, but it's the only way to see everything
without having to open a bunch of folders. Anyway, it seems pretty
good so far.