---
blurb: ""
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
date: 2007-06-11T00:00:00
id: 20eM2VBW1MAv
scrubbed_2021: false
status: published
title: Lightroom initial review
type: post
slug: lightroom-initial-review--20em2vbw1mav
---

Been playing around with Lightroom a little more. Mainly using it
to edit down a wedding I shot a couple weeks ago. By and large,
it's a very good application for something that has just hit
version 1.0. That said, there are a few things that still need to
be worked out. My main gripe is that I run into "Out of Memory"
issues from time to time. This appears to be a Windows only thing
and doesn't seem to be related to the actual amount of memory in
the machine. (Possible culprit is Norton's real-time anti-virus
protection, but that remains to be confirmed.) These errors don't
seem critical and simply shutting down and restarting the
application (not the entire computer) seem to get everything
humming along again. By and large, it's very quick to do cropping,
color correction, keyword input and making picks and discarding
rejects. Way faster than anything else I've used before.
Admittedly, I've only toyed around with a few other tools, but
compared to Adobe Bridge combined with Camera Raw that I had been
using, it's measurably faster. Another item that Adobe needs to
come up with a solution for is the ability to transport libraries
between different computers. Right now, that doesn't appear to be
possible. I've seen a few hacks around the net, but nothing that I
would want to try for fear of royally screwing things up. I
wouldn't be surprised if this improvement is close to the top of
the list of things the engineers are working on. Most shooters I
know use a laptop for in the field and on location, but then dump
to a desktop machine as soon as they are able for heavy lifting and
archive purposes. A final grip is that lack of a function in
lightroom that drives a batch process in photoshop. As a specific
example of where this would be nice, in the wedding images I'm
processing I want to a apply a mild soft focus to each image.
Lightroom doesn't have that so I created an action in Photoshop to
accommodate the desired effect. Trouble is, the only way I can get
the edits and selections I made in lightroom over is to export
plain files from that applcatoin and then run a separate batch in
Photoshop. It should be as simply as making my selection and then
telling lightroom which action in photoshop I want to run with the
chosen images. I'll bet that's not too far away either. All and
all, it's a solid start for an application. Still have a few bugs
to work out to make it as stable as I would expect and then a few
improvements to add to get it on down the path to more expected
functionality. Still, it's saved me a ton of time running the
wedding, so money well spent.