---
category: Miscellaneous
date: '2007-04-21'
slug: /new-laptop
title: New Laptop
type: post
---


I was in HSV this past week while my mom was recovering from some
minor foot surgery. She had planned to get a new laptop so that she
could use it next week to get some work done while still on the
couch (she has to keep her foot elevated for another week or so). I
placed an order for one for her with Lenovo on April 4. The
original note said that it should ship in 1-2 weeks. Then on April
18, I got a note saying that it wouldn't ship till May 5. This
didn't do us any good so I cancled the order. Waiting a month to
get a computer? Hell by that time it's probably already worth 20%
less than when you paid for it. Anyway, we decided to bite the
bullet and buy one locally. The first stop was compUsa where I
quickly discovered that the only thing on the sales floor of the
Windows variety was packed with Vista. My mom was come a long way,
but she is still very un-savvy when it comes to computers. She
needs XP because that's what she knows. Also, I've never used Vista
which means I wouldn't be able to answer questions and frankly, I'm
a big fan of waiting till after the first major service patch has
been released before moving onto a new Microsoft platform. (Or most
other software for that matter.) We went around to Office Depot and
Staples too, and the case was the same. No machines on the floor
besides the odd "display model" that didn't come with Vista.
Luckily, you can still by XP in the box and the fact that we tried
a few different places worked out pretty well anyway. We ended up
with a $500 Compaq C500 laptop and purchasing a boxed version of
Windox XP for \~$160 from staples. I must say I'm pretty impressed
with the laptop. I didn't use Vista on it at all, but it runs XP
very nicely and is more than adequate for the word documents, email
and web surfing that is going to be all my mom does with it. The
average price of the laptops at CompUSA was way higher. I think I
saw one that was about $700, and a few for around $800, but most
were $1,000+. It's odd to think, but going an office store (in this
case Staples) was way better than buying at a computer store.