---
category: Miscellaneous
date: '2008-05-11'
slug: /eneloop-batteries
title: Eneloop batteries
type: post
---


[![Eneloop Recheageable Batteries](http://www.alanwsmith.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/05/eneloop.jpg "Eneloop Recheageable Batteries")](http://www.amazon.com/SANYO-eneloop-Pre-Charged-Rechargeable-Batteries/dp/B000IV2WAW/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=electronics&qid=1210546412&sr=1-1)Back
in October, I wrote an
[entry](http://www.alanwsmith.com/blog/2007/10/03/even-better-batteries/)
about better rechargeable batteries I had recently discovered. At
that time, I hadn't bought any, but I finally got some before the
wedding I shot back at the start of March. There are a few
different brands out there. The ones I got are from Sanyo. The
brand name is Eneloop, and they rock. After living with them for a
few months, I'm happy to report that they work as advertised. The
key feature that makes them valuable is their low "self-discharge"
rate. The previous sets of rechargeable batteries I've used
apparently had a much higher rate. Basically, what this meant is
that if you charged the old type batteries and then didn't use the
for a little while (say a week or two), they would have lost a lot
of their juice. When you put them in, say, a flash to do some
photography, you could easily be in trouble. So, in order to make
sure they were ready to work with, you effectively have to charge
them the night before you want to use them to make sure they were
topped off. These newer versions with their low/slow self-discharge
hold onto their power much longer. Their marketing state that if
you are simply storing them, they will maintain 90% of their charge
for 6 months and 85% over a year. I haven't had them long enough to
figure that out, and frankly I'm not really going to try to test
it. What I'm interested in is if they ready to go when I need them.
I can deal with charging them if I know I've got a lot of shotting
to do the next day, but it's when I haven't shot for a few weeks
and I just want to fire off a few shots that is the real test. I
just put a set that was charged three or four weeks ago in a strobe
and it charged as if a completely fresh set was in them. I highly
recommend these for everything except smoke alarms (just in case).
The more batteries we can keep out of land fills the better off
we'll all be. You can purchase them from Amazon
([link](http://www.amazon.com/SANYO-eneloop-Pre-Charged-Rechargeable-Batteries/dp/B000IV2WAW))
and I'm sure other places have them as well. The batteries come in
at least two flavors: "800 mAh" and "2,000 mAh". Make sure when
you're getting yours you get the highest "mAh" available at the
time (currently the 2,000 version). Especially if you are going to
use them in a flash or digital camera. While this rating isn't as
high as some of the other rechargeable batteries out there, the
fact that they hang onto that charge for a long time is more than
an even trade off. You don't have to worry about the mAh difference
that much unless you are really an intense user. For example, I
shot an entire wedding (roughly 1,500 frames) and only used two
sets of the eneloops in my main flash which was shooting into a
lumiQuest most of the time. So, they work great from that
perspective as well. As a final note, if you want to get a better
charger than one of the basic ones, the
[La Crosse Technology BC-900](http://www.amazon.com/Crosse-Technology-BC-900-AlphaPower-Battery/dp/B00077AA5Q/ref=pd_bbs_1?ie=UTF8&s=home-garden&qid=1210546700&sr=8-1)
is expensive, but very nice. Advantages include the fact that it
allows you to charge batteries at different rates (to help them
last longer), "recondition" them if they are behaving badly, and
also reports when the batteries are fully charged so you don't have
to guess. Most folks probably don't need those features, but it's
certainly handy.